Check it out here: https://grocery-bud-salaarshafi.netlify.app/

This is a project you can use to make a grocery list. Once an item is added you can edit it or individually delete it or clear the whole list at once. Every time you submit an item, delete it or edit it the program will alert you respectively.

This project returns a form jsx element which has in it an input and a button html tag. This input has an onChange attribute present on it which sets the name state equal to the value of the input.

The button changes between submit and edit names and functionalities by use of the short circuit operator which inturn uses an isEditing state to determine which button to display and which functionality to run on clicking each respective button. The isEditing is normally false showing the submit button and a list function is imported which returns an array of jsx components that are each list item and on these list items an icon is present that set's the isEditing state to true and subsequently the edit button is displayed. Also it set's the editId state to the index of the clicked item's data object passed in to it by means of prop-drilling.

The submit button functionality is simple and it set's the list state which is an array, by first destructuring it using the rest operator and passing in a new object with values name (which is equal to the name) and index (which is equal to the current array's length). The edit button however uses the editId state to establish whether to be visible or not. On clicking it sifts through each item on the list and compares it's index to every data object's index to determine whether it matches it or not. If so it set's the value of the object with the same index to the current name state.

A delete function is also defined in the main App.js file which is passed into the list function and through it to the single item function by means of prop-drilling. Here it sifts through the list state also passed in to it by the same means, and filters this state by comparing each items data.object's index value to the matching data object in the list state. When it does matches these two props it removes that item from the list state and set's the list state equal to the newly filtered array. Thus removing this item from the array.

A clearItems button is also defined at the bottom of the jsx component and this button in order to clear all items simply set's the list state to an empty array on click which is it's function in the component.

Whenever an action is performed; be it editing, clearing or submitting items in the list an alert is shown confirming the relevant action performed. This happens whenever a button is clicked  eg on clicking any button the alert state is automatically set to an object containing type and message values matching the button type you clicked. This alert state is then passed into an imported alert function which checks the type value of the alert state and returns a jsx element containing the message passed in, in the alert state that is. Every button has a time-out function which after a set amount of time again sets the type and message values of the alert state to false so that the alert message automatically disappears after this predefined time period has passed as the alert function aslo reads the false type value of alert state and returns null when this is the case.
